docs/src/ai/privacy-and-security.md, before:

# Privacy and Security

## Philosophy

Zed aims to collect on the minimum data necessary to serve and improve our product.

We believe in opt-in data sharing as the default in building AI products, rather than opt-out, like most of our competitors. Privacy Mode is not a setting to be toggled, it's a default stance.

As an open-source product, we believe in maximal transparency, and invite you to examine our codebase. If you find issues, we encourage you to share them with us.

It is entirely possible to use Zed, including Zed's AI capabilities, without sharing any data with us and without authenticating into the product. We're happy to always support this desired use pattern.

## Documentation

- [Telemetry](../telemetry.md): How Zed collects general telemetry data.

- [AI Improvement](./ai-improvement.md): Zed's opt-in-only approach to data collection for AI improvement, whether our Agentic offering or Edit Predictions.

- [Accounts](../authentication.md): When and why you'd need to authenticate into Zed, how to do so, and what scope we need from you.

- [Collab](https://zed.dev/faq#data-and-privacy): How Zed's live collaboration works, and how data flows to provide the experience (we don't store your code!).

## Legal Links

- [Terms of Service](https://zed.dev/terms-of-service)
- [Terms of Use](https://zed.dev/terms)
- [Privacy Policy](https://zed.dev/privacy-policy)
- [Zed's Contributor License and Feedback Agreement](https://zed.dev/cla)
- [Subprocessors](https://zed.dev/subprocessors)

Commit message:

Introduce worktree trust mechanism (#44887)
Closes https://github.com/zed-industries/zed/issues/12589

Forces Zed to require user permissions before running any basic
potentially dangerous actions: parsing and synchronizing
`.zed/settings.json`, downloading and spawning any language and MCP
servers (includes `prettier` and `copilot` instances) and all
`NodeRuntime` interactions.
There are more we can add later, among the ideas: DAP downloads on
debugger start, Python virtual environment, etc.

By default, Zed starts in restricted mode and shows a `! Restricted
Mode` in the title bar, no aforementioned actions are executed.
Clicking it or calling `workspace::ToggleWorktreeSecurity` command will
bring a modal to trust worktrees or dismiss the modal:

<img width="1341" height="475" alt="1"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/4fabe63a-6494-42c7-b0ea-606abb1c0c20"
/>

Agent Panel shows a message too:

<img width="644" height="106" alt="2"
src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/0a4554bc-1f1e-455b-b97d-244d7d6a3259"
/>

This works on local, SSH and WSL remote projects, trusted worktrees are
persisted between Zed restarts.
There's a way to clear all persisted trust with
`workspace::ClearTrustedWorktrees`, this will restart Zed.

This mechanism can be turned off with settings:
```jsonc
"session": {
  "trust_all_worktrees": true
}
```
in this mode, all worktrees will be trusted by default, allowing all
actions, but no auto trust will be persisted: hence, when the setting is
changed back, auto trusted worktrees will require another trust
confirmation.

This settings switch was added to the onboarding view also.

Release Notes:

- Introduced worktree trust mechanism, can be turned off with
`"session": { "trust_all_worktrees": true }`

---------

Co-authored-by: Matt Miller <mattrx@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Danilo Leal <daniloleal09@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: John D. Swanson <swanson.john.d@gmail.com>

docs/src/ai/privacy-and-security.md, after:

# Privacy and Security

## Philosophy

Zed aims to collect only the minimum data necessary to serve and improve our product.

We believe in opt-in data sharing as the default in building AI products, rather than opt-out, like most of our competitors. Privacy Mode is not a setting to be toggled, it's a default stance.

As an open-source product, we believe in maximal transparency, and invite you to examine our codebase. If you find issues, we encourage you to share them with us.

It is entirely possible to use Zed, including Zed's AI capabilities, without sharing any data with us and without authenticating into the product. We're happy to always support this desired use pattern.

## Documentation

- [Worktree trust](../worktree-trust.md): How Zed opens files and directories in restricted mode.

- [Telemetry](../telemetry.md): How Zed collects general telemetry data.

- [AI Improvement](./ai-improvement.md): Zed's opt-in-only approach to data collection for AI improvement, whether our Agentic offering or Edit Predictions.

- [Accounts](../authentication.md): When and why you'd need to authenticate into Zed, how to do so, and what scope we need from you.

- [Collab](https://zed.dev/faq#data-and-privacy): How Zed's live collaboration works, and how data flows to provide the experience (we don't store your code!).

## Legal Links

- [Terms of Service](https://zed.dev/terms-of-service)
- [Terms of Use](https://zed.dev/terms)
- [Privacy Policy](https://zed.dev/privacy-policy)
- [Zed's Contributor License and Feedback Agreement](https://zed.dev/cla)
- [Subprocessors](https://zed.dev/subprocessors)
